>> LISA GARR: Hi.
I'm Lisa Garr, host of "Gaiam
Inspirations," coming to you
from Gaiam's beautiful
Los Angeles studios.
So do you have a dream?
Have you always
treated it like a dream
and have not yet
brought it into reality?
My guest today says that the
single most important dream
has everything to do with
the business you're in.
These are the words of America's
dream coach Marcia Wieder.
Marcia's the CEO and
founder of Dream University,
and she has over 25 years of
experience, business and life
coaching.
And she's appeared several times
on "Oprah" and "The Today Show"
and her own PBS TV special.
She's written 14
books, and she's here
today with us on Gaiam TV.
Thank you so much for
joining me, Marcia.
>> MARCIA WIEDER: I love
being with you, Lisa.
It's and honor to
be with you again.
>> LISA: I know.
We have a good time.
>> WIEDER: Yes.
>> LISA: You were
on Gaiam TV before.
>> WIEDER: It was an honor.
Yes.
But the new digs are gorgeous.
>> LISA: Isn't it gorgeous?
>> WIEDER: I want people to
know that the scene behind us is
real.
It's not a set.
>> LISA: Those-- that's
the sunshine just singing
on the Hollywood Hills.
It's beautiful.
So let's talk a little bit about
your distinction between what
a dream is.
>> WIEDER: Yes.
Well, we're not talking
about nighttime dreams,
although those are
important as well.
I define a dream as
something that you want.
And distinct from a fantasy,
like winning the lottery,
in a dream you can design
a strategy or a plan
to make it happen.
>> LISA: So is it like a goal,
or is it different than a goal?
>> WIEDER: It is
similar to a goal.
It's a little bit
more heart-based,
because where dreams come
from is you make them up.
Some of them are based on
need, like putting food
on the table or a desire,
like sending your kids
to a good school, which
is more like a goal,
but the dreams that
come from your heart
or that are the expression
of your purpose in life
are usually the most profound.
I would add that standing
in your purpose, the quality
of your dreams and the
quality of your life
will actually change.
>> LISA: So that's actually a
really good formula that you
just said.
Standing in your
purpose-- what was that?
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
Knowing who you are and
why you're here and asking
the question-- how do
I want my life to be?--
will allow you to really
create a dream-come-true life.
>> LISA: Rather than that
check-off list of 10 things
to do.
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
We're so mired in reality
and so busy living
from our clocks and
calendars that many of us
don't even know what our
dreams are, much less
how to make them happen.
>> LISA: It's such a fine
line, Marcia, though,
because people say, well,
if you have a dream,
it's not going to happen unless
it gets into your calendar.
>> WIEDER: It's true.
Reality is an important
part of the mix.
I love that you brought that up.
We have to know
where we are in order
to design the strategy
for where we want to go.
But the question is, what
has being realistic cost you?
If you're overly
realistic, you'll
often compromise
your dreams down
to be realistic
and usually based
on how much money you have
in your checking account.
So this work is
about getting people
to open up to grander
possibilities,
inviting you to swing out
of just being realistic,
use reality
appropriately to plan,
to design projects
and strategies
and build your dream team,
not as the justification
to minimize what
you really want.
>> LISA: So how do you
build that dream team?
How do you get other
people to align
behind what it is
that you want to do?
>> WIEDER: It's one
of my favorite topics,
because I believe the number
one way to experience ease
and shortcuts on any dream
is to build a dream team,
to share your dream
like a visionary.
So you articulate it with
clarity so people get it,
you express it with passion so
people get excited about it,
and, most importantly,
you master
the skill of what
we call enrollment.
In order to master
manifestation,
you must master the
ability to inspire
other people to join you.
So how you talk about your
dream, the specific requests
that you make, you know, are
you making it easy for people
to say yes?
And if they're
saying no, are you
having the guts to ask them why?
So the way to build
a dream team is
to have a vision-- an audacious
but achievable vision--
that people get excited
about, demonstrate
to them and to the world
that you're not just
talking about it-- you're
doing something about it--
and then make specific
requests and make it easy
for them to say yes, and
invite them to join you.
Life changes, your
dream team comes alive
when you're able to
really articulate
your vision in a way that
gets others to join you.
Because the obstacle called not
enough money can disappear--
>> LISA: Yes.
I was just going
to bring that up.
>> WIEDER: --when you can
inspire people to hire you,
to join you, even
to invest in you.
>> LISA: So if you
don't have the means--
the financial means-- in order
to start your dream and you
want to get a team but
you don't have the money--
I've seen this so many times--
how do you get everything
aligned?
You're talking about--
Now, I know you.
I've known you for a
long time, and I've
had the pleasure of being
with you in conferences.
I know how accountable you are.
When you hear something, you're
like, wait, that's not true.
That doesn't make sense.
Maybe look at it this way.
You're so good with
stuff like that.
>> WIEDER: Even
calling myself on it.
It's like, wait a minute.
I know I said yes,
but I really mean no.
So you're touching on a
couple of different points.
One is you and I
have both seen often
people go further in life with
their passion and commitment
than with skill, experience,
and gobs of money.
So when people say to me
money is the thing that's
stopping me, and I say
to them, really, how much
do you need, and they
go, I don't know,
but I know I don't
have enough, that's
one of those stories
we tell ourselves.
So inside of us, we have this
dreamer that says, yes, I can.
We have this doubter
that says, no, you can't.
And we have this realist that
wants to know what's the plan?
Where are you going
to get the time
and where are you
going to get the money?
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: But in the
early phases of the dream,
you may not have
it all figured out.
And that's why going
to reality and strategy
too soon can compromise
the dream down.
Now this doubter voice,
nothing activates
our own personal
doubt more than saying
you're going to do
something and not
doing it or saying you're
going to write the book
and never sitting down to start.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> WIEDER: So next time
you get a dream or a vision
or a creative idea, that doubter
pulls out that very long file
drawer and says, wait a minute,
look at all the times that you
said you were going to do
something and not do it.
>> LISA: And you didn't, yeah.
>> WIEDER: So I'll
sum it up like this.
In order to go for
big dreams, you
have to have the
courage and guts.
You have to be
willing to take risks.
Well, in order to take risks,
we need to trust ourselves.
And I have found the thing that
will either deepen or erode
self-trust has everything to
do with how you make and keep
your agreements with
yourself and others.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> WIEDER: So the question
is, are you trustworthy?
>> LISA: Look what you've done.
You've created a 25-year career.
>> WIEDER: It's really 30,
but it sounded too long.
>> LISA: We'll keep it at 25.
As a dream coach.
>> WIEDER: I've trained and
certified over 1,000 dream
coaches.
This work is being taught in
companies, schools, prisons,
battered women's shelters.
I'm incredibly proud of that.
>> LISA: Yes.
You created something out
of nothing, out of concepts.
>> WIEDER: Not only that,
people told me I would starve.
People said, you can't
make a business out
of helping people
achieve their dreams.
Now I'm very proud
to tell you I've
grown a multimillion-dollar
business.
But also I'm on the
board for Make-A-Wish.
I've worked for three
United States presidents.
Dreaming-- I mean, if you--
>> LISA: Wow.
>> WIEDER: I know.
You didn't even know that.
>> LISA: Jack Canfield's
coach, I knew that.
>> WIEDER: I was Jack's
personal coach for many years,
and that was
certainly a privilege.
But he's done "Chicken Soup" and
"the Secret" and "The Success
Principles."
And I think what people
love about my work is
that it's very whole brained,
visionary and creative
while also being
practical and strategic.
We need both.
Also head and heart.
At Dream University, we invite
you to explore who are you?
What is your purpose, your
mission, your calling?
And then what are the personal
and professional dreams
that you would make
up that have you
live in alignment or in
integrity with your soul?
And I think what
happens for a lot of us
is that instead of our ego
being in service to our soul,
which, I think, is the
way it's supposed to be--
>> LISA: Interesting, yeah.
>> WIEDER: --I think our
ego hijacks our soul,
and our dreams become
about-- in service to ego.
And I think the journey
home is to remember
that living on purpose requires
three things: one, that we have
a spiritual practice so
we can hear the quieter
voice beneath the ego--
>> LISA: The whispers, yes.
>> WIEDER: --two, you know
what's unique and special about
you, formed out of every
success and every failure that
you've had, and, number three,
you find a way to be of service
with your gifts.
And I think,
ultimately, a true dream
come true life is
about living on purpose
and living in integrity
with your heart and soul.
>> LISA: Well, it's interesting
because you take that message
across all sorts of
different audiences,
from corporations to
TED conferences, to--
>> WIEDER: Kids.
>> LISA: --personal
development, kids.
>> WIEDER: Girl Scout camp.
>> LISA: Oh, that's right.
That's right.
You worked-- We're going to
take a look at Marcia in action
here.
Take a look.
This is Marcia Wieder.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> WIEDER: The single most
important dream has everything
to do with the
business you're in.
I'm really honored to tell
you that this work of helping
people get clear about what
they do and don't want,
believing in themselves, and
taking action on those dreams
is being taught in corporations,
school systems, nonprofits,
in the corporate world, but
also in prisons and in shelters.
And if you're here and
you have a nonprofit,
please see me sometime
during this day,
because I have
stuff I want to give
you to help and support you in
making your dream a reality.
Dreaming is a whole
brained process,
visionary and creative,
practical and strategic.
We need both.
The dream movement is not
just about any old step.
There's a very specific and
critical step we need to take.
Because most of us stand
with one foot firmly planted
in reality and the other foot
firmly planted in our doubt.
And the realist says,
you shouldn't do that.
And the doubter
says, and here's why.
And by the way, nothing
activates that doubter more
than saying you're
going to do one thing
and not doing anything at all.
When we stop dreaming, the brain
sends a message to the body
that it's no longer
needed, and we
start to mentally or
physically self-destruct.
So what's the cure?
Passion and dreams.
Connected to your
passion, you have
more energy, more enthusiasm.
Connected to your
dreams, you have a reason
to get out of bed
in the morning.
Enrollment for me is very
different than selling.
Enrollment is when
you share your vision,
your ideas, your
business opportunity
in a way that inspires
other people to join you.
Now look, how many
of you would say
it would be a dream come true if
you didn't have to sell people
but they came begging you to
be part of your dream team?
Share your dream
like a visionary.
A visionary has a
vision or a big dream.
A visionary articulates
it with clarity
so people understand what it is.
A visionary shares the
opportunity with passion
so people are excited
and want to know more.
And a true visionary invites,
inspires, and enrolls others
in joining them, sharing your
vision, your opportunity,
your energy, your
passion in a way that
inspires other
people to join you.
Show them how this company
is the vehicle for making
those dreams a
reality and how you're
going to be their dream
coach to supportively hold
them accountable in taking
the next step and then
the next step.
That becomes a very
compelling reason for people
to get involved in the business.
>>What Marcia Wieder was
able to provide for myself
and my organization
was a program
that I could use to allow my
employees to see that what they
want to happen in their
life is important.
>>When your boss actually
takes the time to notice
and cares about
you, it's like, OK,
I really want to do a
good job to show her
that I appreciate what
she's done for me.
>>I knew at some
level that if I just
kept taking the steps
forward in my own dream
and what I believed in, that
ultimately I would see results.
And that's exactly
what happened.
>>I was leery.
It was an investment.
And as any investment
in business,
you're always leery
of what kind of return
you're going to get on it.
>>Steven is very numbers-driven,
and he was very frustrated
and very irritated by the fact
that I was taking bottom line
profits to invest in
quote, unquote "dreaming."
>>We saw our sales
increase 14.2%,
14.2% as a company
sales increase.
Profitability was up 20%.
>>I believe that
the reason we're
seeing the sales increases
that we're seeing
is because we are completely
engaged with our employees.
>> WIEDER: Be an example
that no dream is impossible
and the extraordinary things
that can happen when we come
together.
And my friends,
that's what America
needs from us right now.
That's what your companies need.
That's what our
schools need to be
reminded that our dreams matter.
And it's never been a
better or more important
time to actually go
for those dreams.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> LISA: So tell me how the
audiences have changed over
the years, or if you've
changed your messaging at all
to the groups that
you speak with.
>> WIEDER: Well, at
a personal level,
when I first started
I just thought, oh,
this is what's in my heart.
I'll speak about it.
And people resonated with it.
And the economy was strong.
People were focused on achieving
their own dreams, goodies,
new houses, new
cars, even though I
felt that there was
a deeper message.
And then when the
economy tanked,
people started becoming
afraid of dreaming
and started really
holding back on what
they were investing
their money on.
And I stayed consistent,
that it's never
been a better or more important
time to go for your dreams,
that regardless of what's
going on in the economy,
in the stock market, or in
your own checkbook, that's not
actually the ideal place
to look for evidence of
whether or not your
dream is a good idea.
>> LISA: That's true.
>> WIEDER: If something really
matters to you and you can
master the skill we were talking
about earlier of enrollment,
it's not really about how much
money you have in the bank.
The other thing that
happened is that I discovered
there was research done-- Dr.
Mehmet Oz personally told me--
that people with
passion and dreams
live 7 to 10 years longer.
>> LISA: Oh.
>> WIEDER: There's a medical
term for it called apoptosis,
and it's something like
when your brain believes
you've outgrown your usefulness,
which we see when people
retire, get laid off,
experience an empty nest,
or when you stop dreaming,
the brain sends a message
to the body that it's
no longer needed.
So when I started talking
to boomers and said,
you're going to live a longer,
happier, healthier life if you
have dreams, they
started getting
very interested in
the message again.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> WIEDER: So it
really has morphed.
I can't even believe,
literally, that it's
been three decades
that I'm teaching this.
And at a personal level, the
thing that I didn't realize
would happen was I started
being branded and recognized
as a thought leader because
I was talking about something
and writing so many books
about it for such a long time.
>> LISA: That's interesting.
>> WIEDER: So I love it.
>> LISA: I was going to ask how
you use any of your techniques
on yourself when you're getting
up during the day or planning
your next year or what
it is that you're doing.
You're constantly reinventing
yourself in different ways
as well.
>> WIEDER: I am, and I'm
no longer ashamed of it.
I used think that I was
a kooky entrepreneur.
>> LISA: No.
But this is what you talk about.
>> WIEDER: And also it's
what makes me happy.
And I've learned that I have
a really big value on happy.
I've learned-- it
sounds overly simple,
but it's so great for
your audience, Lisa--
that for each of us to know
what is your North Star.
For some people,
it's about peace.
For some people, it's
about productivity.
For me, it's about happy.
And when I'm happy,
that's feedback for me
that I'm in integrity with
my own heart and soul.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> WIEDER: So a
couple of things.
One is I'm always asking myself
a very confronting question,
which is how do I
want my life to be?
And it's confronting
because if you
are someone who practices
living with integrity,
the next question has to be what
am I willing to do about it?
There was a time
when I had my B list.
I was unhappy with my business,
my body, my boyfriend, my bank
account, and the
building I was living in.
My life added up to a big
F. And I thought, well,
if I'm really going to
practice what I preach,
I have to make some changes.
And the other thing
is I say to people
don't look in your
checkbook for evidence of
whether or not your
dream is a good idea.
I really needed to move.
I was living in a
really toxic situation.
I bought a house, and
it wasn't disclosed
that there had been a false
floor built to cover up
that the house had
slipped on the foundation.
>> LISA: Oh my god.
>> WIEDER: It was a
nightmare, four years of hell
and thousands of dollars.
>> LISA: Wow.
>> WIEDER: And finally I
realized that I had to practice
what I preach and say no more
and have the courage to pull
the plug on something, even
though I had a lot of money
in it and it was
tricky to navigate.
I realized that if
I didn't do what
I said I was going to do--
I jokingly said it was my
come to Jesus moment, which is
a big deal for a Jewish girl.
>> LISA: Yes, yes.
But it works.
>> WIEDER: But I could no longer
continue to teach or coach
or consult or write or speak
about my core message if I was
unwilling to do it.
So it really is true.
Every New Year's Eve, instead
of writing out my resolutions
and goals, I write
out my dreams.
>> LISA: You do?
>> WIEDER: I do.
And at the end of the
year, I reflect back,
and I'm always grateful and
delighted that many of them
have happened.
And the ones that
haven't happened,
I question how
committed I am to them.
And I'm a believer that if you
have lingering dreams year in,
year out, either do
them or dump them.
Because that
activates the doubter.
If I'm forever saying that
I'm going to write a book
or I'm going to get down
to some ridiculous size
that I know I'm never going to
be or I'm going to go somewhere
that I never do anything about
it, that sucks out my energy,
it takes up psychic space, and
it sends a message to myself
that I'm saying something and
not doing anything about it.
>> LISA: Do you write these down
and then you look back at them?
>> WIEDER: A year later.
>> LISA: You do?
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
>> LISA: Where do you
write them, in a journal?
>> WIEDER: I'll put
them in a journal.
But I mean, for long-term
dreams or big dreams,
like retirement dreams
or million dollar dreams,
it's really important that we
turn the dreams into projects.
I recommend projects
that can easily
be accomplished in
one month or less,
because a month is a short
enough period of time where you
can stay passionate and excited,
but a long enough period
of time where you
can produce a result.
We need to see that we're
progressing and accomplishing
results in order
to stay inspired.
So I'll often break
my dreams down.
I am so overdue
writing a new book,
and I finally made a commitment
to my own mastermind group.
I'm the leader of
the mastermind group,
and they said, well,
what are you working on?
And I thought, if you tell
someone else your dream,
you're like 1,000 times
more likely to do something
about it.
>> LISA: Why?
Because of accountability?
>> WIEDER: Accountability.
>> LISA: Ah, yeah.
>> WIEDER: Which is
why coaching has become
a multibillion-dollar industry.
So even me, if I tell you
and declare to everyone
I am writing a new book,
oh, gosh, now I really
have to do it.
>> LISA: Yes.
>> WIEDER: So within one month,
I'm writing out the table
of contents.
Within a month after
that, I'm going
to find somebody to help
me write the proposal.
Because for two years, I'd
been not writing the proposal.
So if you can identify where
you're stuck and sabotaging
yourself and get
somebody to help you,
more likely to move forward.
>> LISA: That's a
perfect example.
So then do you say by
this date in February,
or do you just say two months?
>> WIEDER: No.
I set a very specific date.
>> LISA: You do?
>> WIEDER: Because otherwise,
we'll just keep moving
the date.
>> LISA: And we'll think this
ambiguous two months happens.
>> WIEDER: Right.
Sometime in the future.
>> LISA: And you put
it in your calendar.
>> WIEDER: I do.
And I actually put the
due date on the calendar.
>> LISA: Ah, that
makes it happen.
>> WIEDER: And then if
the date comes and I
haven't accomplished it, well,
then I can acknowledge it and I
can say, how important
is this to me?
Am I really serious about it?
Because we're all
busy, but the ability
to say no more to
what's no longer true
or what's sucking
the life out of you
or what you're
complaining about,
that opens up space for now
what's really important to me.
And I think it's part of the
process of turning your life
right-side-up.
I know we're going to talk
about the Passion Pyramid here
in a bit.
But turning your
life right-side-up
means that you're living the
expression of what you love.
Every day you're waking up,
and you're creating your life
consciously, as opposed to just
reacting and responding to it.
So a simple question
that every morning I do
is, what will make
me happy today?
>> LISA: So what
did you do today?
>> WIEDER: I knew I was
coming here see you.
I was just looking
forward to it.
And what I did was I
stepped out on my balcony
in beautiful Beverly
Hills this morning.
It was sunny and warm.
I've been down with that crazy
respiratory flu, and I thought,
what would make me happy?
And the dogs were like--
[PANTING] And I thought,
I'm going to take
the dogs for a walk.
>> LISA: Oh, nice.
>> WIEDER: I'm going to get a
warm chocolate chip cookie over
at Sprinkles.
That was my morning.
>> LISA: That's nice.
>> WIEDER: And it's
the little things.
But the willingness to
even ask the question.
And when we're so filled
up that we don't even
have the bandwidth to imagine
plopping one more thing down
on our life, we're
not living our life.
>> LISA: So that's because
we haven't said no to things.
What is that about?
What is the yes person?
I'm that way, too.
Yes, yes, I'll do it.
Sure, yes, OK.
I can handle that,
one more thing.
It's just I'll get it over with.
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
>> LISA: Yeah.
Why is that?
>> WIEDER: Well, different
things for different people.
I know for myself
feeling like I always
had to say yes was I was
afraid of disappointing others.
Because, for me, disappointing
is painful for myself.
I always like feeling a
little bit significant.
So as long as I know
that you need me,
it lifts me up a little bit.
So I think that any of
us that are on this path,
to be great teachers, we have to
be great students and hopefully
students of consciousness
work and that we
take the time to
ask good questions,
to reflect, to put the
personal practices in place.
And hands down, the most
powerful thing for me
really has been to learn
how to say, no, thank you,
without any justification,
rational, or explanation.
>> LISA: Or anger.
Because sometimes when
you get on that no,
you're like no. [GROANS]
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
Well, it gets easier.
I can tell you.
And as busy as I
am-- and this is
going to sound a
little braggadocious.
Is that a good
word, braggadocious?
Braggalicious?
>> LISA: Make it up.
>> WIEDER: As busy
as I am, I have time,
and I have free time,
and I have a life.
And people tell me
I look 20 years--
>> LISA: That's
not braggadocious--
>> WIEDER: --younger now.
>> LISA: --at all.
That's admirable.
>> WIEDER: I'll tell
you the gift of it.
>> LISA: OK.
>> WIEDER: Two weeks ago, a
young gal that I met through
the Make-A-Wish Foundation--
I'm on the board,
and it's such a privilege.
And last week I did a fundraiser
for them, and I loved it.
I bought the wine and cheese.
I bought the crackers.
I gave my time.
We raised thousands
of dollars, and I
felt like I made $100,000
because I just-- it
was so wonderful to have time,
energy, and money to give.
Love that.
Highly recommend it.
Well, one of the
gals that I met,
a 15-year-old girl
with cystic fibrosis,
Claire, who has
her own foundation
called Claire's Place,
which is about teaching
kids and families to
thrive, not just survive
with cystic fibrosis.
Well, Claire's had
over 30 operations.
She's 15 years old.
>> LISA: Oh, wow.
>> WIEDER: She walks around with
an oxygen tank and tubes up her
nose.
And she called me up two
weeks ago, and she said,
I've been invited
to give a TED talk.
Can you help me prepare?
I'm like, yeah, sure.
When is it?
She said, Sunday.
And you know what?
I was able to be available.
And she came over to my home.
She showed me her PowerPoint.
I got her to throw
the PowerPoint away.
I taught her how to set context.
She says brilliant things
out of her own mouth,
like God gave me a short life,
so I have no time to waste.
What's your excuse?
>> LISA: Ooh.
Ooh.
>> WIEDER: And she's so dynamic.
>> LISA: And you
saw that in her.
That's beautiful.
>> WIEDER: Oh, I love her.
She got the only standing
ovation of the morning
from all these TED talks.
And the fact that I was
available on a moment's notice
to be of service, to have that
level of joy to contribute,
that's how I want my life to be.
>> LISA: That's it.
>> WIEDER: So I was on track
last year to grow my business
by five times.
And I was unhappy,
I was stressed,
I was waking up in the
middle of the night,
and I finally said,
what am I doing?
I don't need to grow a
$10 million business.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: I'm happy to
have a lifestyle business,
because that's
what I value most.
This whole dream conversation
is about getting in touch
with what matters to you.
What do you really care about?
What's really important to you?
What dream must you
accomplish before you
die in order to die
happy and fulfilled?
And most importantly,
how do you want
to live every single
day of your life?
>> LISA: Yeah, your calling.
>> WIEDER: And when you
develop the muscle to say, no,
thank you to what's no longer
true and the courage to live
and to be an example to your
friends and loved ones that
life is about living--
I think we forget that.
>> LISA: That is
absolutely true,
especially if you have children.
And if you're working
so hard all the time
and you're stressed
all the time,
your child's not going to ever
have a good impression of work.
>> WIEDER: Yes.
>> LISA: And then you're
going to pass that down,
and they're going to
work hard and hate it.
Yeah.
You're modeling constantly
as a parent as well.
>> WIEDER: Constantly.
So are you demonstrating
to your children
that you're going
for your dreams?
Are you showing your
kids what a dream
come true looks like, which
includes that kind of quality
time and love, energy,
time-- I'll say it again--
that kind of time for what
really matters to you most?
>> LISA: Oh, that's wonderful.
So then when you
have demons come up
or story comes out that
gets you off that path,
I want you to take a
look at Marcia teaching.
This is the Passion
Pyramid, right?
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
This is about
bringing more of what
you love into your
everyday life.
>> LISA: Your essence.
>> WIEDER: And turning
your life right-side-up.
Let's Take a look at this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> WIEDER: The
question simply is,
how do I want my life to be?
How do I want my life to be
is a confronting question,
because if you're someone
who practices living
with integrity, dreamtime,
aboriginals, someone who
practices living with integrity,
after you ask the question how
do I want my life to be,
the next question must be,
and what am I willing
to do about it?
What am I willing
So I drew this little
graphic the other day,
but I'll put it
back up here again,
because I think it's so useful.
We call this the
Passion Pyramid.
And the bottom of
this is your purpose.
Who are you?
Then we move into dreams-- how
do you want your life to be?--
projects-- how are we going to
move forward on the dreams?--
and then we get into scheduling.
Most of us live our
lives from the top down.
Something happens, you
go to your calendar
to see where you
can jam one more
thing into an
overscheduled life.
What I would like to
teach you and offer to you
is that you can turn
your life right-side-up.
Standing in your purpose, you
ask the question, who am I?
That's purpose.
Who am I?
Why am I here?
How do I want my life to be,
personally and professionally?
Where dreams come from
is you make them up.
Some of them are based on need.
Some of them are
based on desire.
The dreams that come
from your purpose
are usually the most profound.
And, without purpose--
You know, I'll be asked to
come into a corporation.
They'll say, yeah, we want
to pay you a lot of money
to deliver a keynote.
Can you skip that purpose stuff?
Well, without purpose,
people often climb
to the top of the
mountain and discover
it's the wrong mountain.
So we want to turn your
life right-side-up.
Instead of living and reacting
to your clocks and calendars,
we want to live more on purpose.
And you know that
you've attained
this when someday soon when you
open your calendar what you'll
see scheduled are the activities
that are moving you forward
on your dreams that are all
the expression of your purpose.
And purpose is a guiding light.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> LISA: So that is a great
way to get yourself reconnected
with your essence.
But what about when the
dreams don't work out?
What happens when they get
crushed or you lose money?
>> WIEDER: What people
call the dreaded doubter.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> WIEDER: So if you turn the
voice of the doubter down,
it becomes the realist, right?
And the realist wants
to know what's the plan.
>> LISA: Pretty much, yep.
>> WIEDER: But before
we turn it down,
how about we hear from it?
Because what I believe
is that every part of us
serves a sacred function.
So what's the sacred
function of the doubter?
Your doubter will give you
your list of obstacles.
>> LISA: Evidence.
Absolutely.
And to show you why
and where it is.
>> WIEDER: So wherever
there's an obstacle,
we can design a strategy
for getting there.
So for example,
every obstacle comes
in one or both of
these two flavors.
It's either an
internal job, something
that you believe
about yourself, life,
or your dream-- I'm
not good enough.
I'm too old.
I don't have the money-- or
it's an external job, something
that requires a
strategy or a plan.
And sometimes it's both.
So if your dream is to start
or grow your own business,
and maybe your obstacle is
you don't have enough money
or you don't know how.
If you don't know how, you can
learn, you can hire a mentor,
you can trade and
barter with someone
if you don't have
the money to hire
somebody, lots of strategies.
But at the end of
the day, if you
have a whole list of
strategies and you still
don't believe in yourself,
probably an internal piece of
work.
So a couple of things.
One is our attitudes and
beliefs are never neutral.
Most of us are aware they either
move us forward or hold us
back.
But what a lot of
us, myself included,
often forget is we can choose
what we're going to believe.
So the question is this.
This is what my whole Dream
University is founded on.
Can you choose to
believe in your dream
not because there are promises,
guarantees, or assurances
but simply because
it matters to you?
Can you believe
enough in something
because it matters to you that
you'll do something about it,
that you'll share the dream?
Because what happens
is, Lisa, and everything
gets all gnarled
up together, right.
I start to get
insecure, so I don't
want to tell anybody
about my dream.
Now I keep it such
a good secret that I
start to forget about
it, when the person who's
sitting right next to me
might be the very person who's
looking for my kind
of idea to invest in.
And we kill off our
dreams before we
explore the possibilities.
>> LISA: Well, at what point
to you realize, though,
that it might not work?
>> WIEDER: Well, I think
if you've given your dream
your all and you really feel
like nothing is happening,
you've got to take
a little inventory.
Am my consciously or
unconsciously sabotaging this?
Or is it really not
the right dream for me?
As I said, most of us need
to see some kind of result
in order to stay motivated.
I have this funny little thing
that I like to say, though.
If you have not dealt
with your own doubt
and you meet another
doubter on the road,
their doubt will magnify yours.
>> LISA: Your own, yes.
Absolutely.
>> WIEDER: But if you've
dealt with your own doubt--
and we can talk a little bit
more about how to do that--
if you've dealt
with your own doubt,
and you meet another
doubter on the road,
by contrast it becomes
the opportunity to deepen
your commitment and your
conviction to your dream.
What that means is can you
talk to anyone, anytime,
anyplace about your vision and,
regardless of what comes back
at you, stay committed
and convicted
to it by taking action?
Not enough to click your
heels together three times,
I do believe, I do
believe, I do believe, not
enough to be thinking
about it, talking about,
it, dreaming about it.
It's your taking action on
it that inspires people.
>> LISA: So I have a friend
who has a toy business.
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
>> LISA: And he has a story
that the toy industry has taken
a dive since the recession,
nobody's putting money
into toys anymore, but yet
he's still trying to run his
business.
But he's got this
massive story running
that there's no longer
money in the toy business.
>> WIEDER: Yeah, well, his
story will perpetuate the myth.
>> LISA: Yes, it has.
>> WIEDER: I have a
favorite saying, old story,
time for new game.
So sometimes when we're
inside of something
we can't actually even
see how insidious it is.
So his lens is
this doesn't work.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: So
everything he's doing--
>> LISA: Is not working.
>> WIEDER: --is the
self-fulfilling prophecy.
Sure, it may require a new
model and new ways of doing it,
and that's where a coach--
not me, but a coach who
can effectively hold him,
help him create a new vision.
We're hosting this big
conference called the Wealthy
Visionary Conference.
A lot of people have said to
me, well, I'm not wealthy,
and I'm not a visionary.
I'm like, that's why
you need to come.
Wealthy is a mindset.
Visionary is your
ability to dream again.
And a lot of us have
lost that ability.
But I'm telling you--
I've said it before.
I'll say it again--
I truly believe
it's never been a better
or more important time.
And those of us that will
continue to make up dreams
that we're passionate
about, take the big dream,
break it down into
projects, articulate it
with clarity and passion,
and inspire other people
to join us, we
will get traction.
And the truth of it
is, if you're doing all
that, nothing's happening,
nothing's happening,
well, maybe it's not your dream.
Maybe it's somebody else's.
>> LISA: That's a
deciding moment.
That's right there
a deciding moment.
>> WIEDER: Most
people quit too soon.
>> LISA: I was going
to ask you about that.
Because a lot of people call
into my radio show and say,
I've lost my purpose.
I've lost my path.
>> WIEDER: Well,
that's different.
For me, purpose is who you are.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: And you can
rediscover your purpose
by going on a passion quest.
Take some time to ask
the important questions.
Who am I?
What matters to me?
What do I love?
What do I care about?
What even angers
and frustrates me?
Look at Mothers
Against Drunk Driving.
Great things can come out
of anger and frustration.
But for a lot of
us, because we've
been so busy focusing on
paying the bills and survival
and raising our children and
in that reality conversation,
many of us have lost our
ability, so we think, to dream.
So start small.
Make up something
that matters to you.
Maybe it's just
having a joyful day.
Start to heal and nurture
the dreamer inside of you
so you can open up to
that childlike quality
of creativity, imagination, and
then bring your adult person
to be able to get out
there and make it happen.
But don't give up too soon.
>> LISA: So is that why you
created the Dream University?
Is that why you
created it, so that you
could make coaches
and help other people
through the coaching programs?
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
Seriously, Lisa, when
I announced to people
that I was closing my
marketing and media
business in the National Press
Building in Washington, DC
to move to California to
start Dream University,
they thought I'd lost my mind.
But I really saw that there
was a need that there were
a lot of people that were
unhappy and unfulfilled
and that were frustrated,
and I was one of them.
And I just started to really
feel and experience the joy
of helping another
person at a basic level.
>> LISA: So you were doing a
high-powered marketing business
in Washington, DC, coaching
presidents, basically,
and the whole professional
CEO suit thing.
>> WIEDER: Not happy.
I walked out in
the street in DC.
I was in a purple silk jumpsuit.
I looked up and down the street.
I was the only
person wearing color.
>> LISA: I'm
thinking purple silk.
>> WIEDER: The only other
color around were the cherry
blossoms, you know?
>> LISA: Wow.
>> WIEDER: But I asked
that confronting question.
How do I want my life to be?
And the answer was very
different than how it was.
And I started to
make up this dream
of living in a cosmopolitan
city near the water
where it didn't snow, being paid
well for doing what I loved--
I didn't know what it
was at that time-- being
in a healthy relationship
with a man who adored me.
I'm still looking for that one.
>> LISA: She's a fireball.
>> WIEDER: I promised myself I'd
be sharing that with the world,
so I'm being true to myself.
>> LISA: That's good.
>> WIEDER: The dream of being
paid well for doing what I
love, a lot of people
don't think it's possible.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: A lot of people have
the you have to suffer to sing
the blues, or I'm spiritual, and
therefore I can't make money.
We need wealth to accomplish
the important transformation
that the world needs
from us right now.
We need philanthropic
people in order
to be generous and
contribute and to really
help transform the landscape
of what the world looks like.
And I intend to be
one of those people.
So you be generous
where you can.
I did this evening
of laser coaching,
and all the money went to
the Make-A-Wish Foundation,
and I came away feeling
really rich and abundant out
of just contributing
and volunteering.
>> LISA: And so are you able
to look at somebody's job
or mission or passion or
whatever it is and just turn it
into reality really fast?
>> WIEDER: I am great at helping
people-- I see potential,
I see where people are out
of integrity with their soul,
and I'm able to quickly
help people design brilliant
shortcuts in order to catapult
their business or their life
forward.
>> LISA: Wow.
>> WIEDER: It's a gift.
>> LISA: It is.
>> WIEDER: I don't know
where I got it from.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: I'm
very, very blessed.
So people pay me a lot of money.
They come to Beverly Hills.
They spend an
entire day with me.
We find their purpose,
clarify their dreams,
and then really look at a
whole branding conversation
for how they can bring it
out in the world in a way
they're going to be paid
and compensated for it.
>> LISA: It's interesting.
Along the conversation
of branding,
how do you take a
brand that has gone
south or something
went wrong with it
or there was a contamination
in the food product
or there's so many
different situations where
you have a bruise in the brand--
>> WIEDER: I think
it's about a new dream.
I don't think it's
about a Band-Aid.
I don't think it's about
just fixing what's wrong.
There's so much more
energy in moving
toward a vision and
a creation process
than there is around moving
away from a problem or issue.
So I think for a company
to really get honest,
to be really revealing and
transparent about what they did
wrong, apologize, do whatever
they need to clean it up,
and then really create a
vision that's appropriate.
>> LISA: I was thinking
about Lance Armstrong,
who's done so much
in the world for--
>> WIEDER: So much good.
>> LISA: --cancer patients.
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
Yeah.
>> LISA: The world is a
different place because of his
awareness that he's brought
with the Livestrong brand.
But yet he's got this
tainted image now
with the doping and
everything and the story that
goes along with that.
How do you keep this
thing that really
helps transform cancer
patients and override that?
He's doing the
accountability thing.
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
I think he's being very
courageous about it, actually.
I was thinking about Martha
Stewart as you were talking--
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: --these
comeback kings and queens.
You know what?
We're human.
We screw up.
And what an extraordinary
initiation for him
as a human being, that he
rose to the top of the top.
Thank goodness that he
used his star quality
to create so much
awareness, so much healing.
>> LISA: There's a lot of
pressure up there with all
the sponsors.
There's a lot riding upon it.
>> WIEDER: Absolutely.
>> LISA: Literally.
>> WIEDER: There's
no right or wrong.
We make mistakes.
I think it's all about
how do we deal with it.
>> LISA: And that's an
interesting thing when you said
that we're human.
Because we make mistakes.
They just make mistakes in
a bigger visibility way.
>> WIEDER: Right.
>> LISA: And if you can really
have compassion maybe for that
person and not make
it like a witch hunt--
>> WIEDER: Well, isn't
that how projection works?
The reaction we're
having out there
is really something about me.
So how am I like that?
How do I do that to myself?
And when I can find
compassion for his mistakes,
I'm going to certainly have
more compassion for myself.
>> LISA: That makes
a lot of sense.
And there's a lot of
different things like that.
We've seen many different
people, presidents, saying,
no, I did not sleep with that
woman, and it comes out later.
>> WIEDER: Oops.
>> LISA: And where there's
just out, out lies,
but we're not in their shoes.
We don't know the pressure
that's happening up there.
For all we know, we have to say
that to save a family member.
We don't know.
>> WIEDER: Let's be
accountable for ourselves.
>> LISA: Let's do that.
>> WIEDER: Each of us can
do the best that we can.
We're human.
We're going to screw up.
Clean it up as quickly
as you possibly can.
>> LISA: Well, maybe you don't
have to screw it up, though.
Maybe you can get to--
>> WIEDER: Even better.
>> LISA: --that place of being
accountable to yourself before
you screw it up.
>> WIEDER: Yeah, catch
yourself before you do it.
>> LISA: Yeah.
>> WIEDER: If something comes
out of my mouth, like I say,
oh, sure, and then I'm thinking,
I'm never going to do that,
I try in the moment
to say, you know,
I know I said yes
because I care about you,
but the truth of
it is I just can't.
And I just want to--
>> LISA: Good for you.
>> WIEDER: --be
reasonable about it.
And I think, like you said,
the earlier we can catch it,
the earlier we can clean it
up, hopefully before we even
screw up, the world
becomes a better place.
And that's really the big dream.
>> LISA: It takes practice.
That's a good one.
>> WIEDER: And look,
you and I in our work,
we're here to create
heaven on Earth.
And that's about joy.
I think we were created
to live a life of joy,
love, and abundance,
and we have forgotten.
We've become really
good problem solvers,
and then we've become
really good problem makers
so we have problems
to solve, as opposed
to remembering that we
are creators as well.
And we have an opportunity to
create the life for ourselves,
our loved ones, and the world
in general by doing the best
that we possibly can.
>> LISA: I always am very
conscious about having too much
of an enlightened conversation
to say that we're here having
all the answers.
We are figuring it out and have
been focusing on figuring it
out so that our time of learning
maybe is a little shorter,
or we could get over those
types of things a little faster.
But then there's the
next mountain to climb.
So I think it's very
important to have
this conversation for anyone
who has ever stepped in the mud
and maybe tarnished their brand
or not fulfilled their purpose
or went the wrong direction--
>> WIEDER: Made a mistake.
>> LISA: --bad
investments, it happens.
>> WIEDER: Absolutely.
>> LISA: All right.
We're going to take another
look at Marcia Wieder in action
on stage.
You really are a
prolific speaker.
Let's take a look.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> WIEDER: It's a big concept.
And I'm not going to get
all psychological on you,
but for some of you this
will be a game-changer.
Everything that I teach is
based on opinion or experience,
and I don't have to be right.
So I believe that
we're born as essence.
How many of you believe
that we're born as essence?
Can I just see?
Cool.
And you might use a
different word for essence.
You might have your own
expression of what that is.
But we're born as
essence, right?
Early in life-- [SINGING]--
you are wounded.
[SINGING] It's
supposed to happen.
It's how you-- I don't
know what's going on.
It's late.
Sound effects.
Whoo hoo.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
It's supposed to happen.
It's what gets you to
individuate from mother.
We start to discover
ourselves as other.
We're wounded.
Now here's where it
gets interesting.
Out of our wound, what comes
in is this big protector.
And it's really
the protector's job
is to protect the wounded child.
It's a good setup,
except that protector
gets inflated, gets
bigger, gets powerful.
Along the way, it
turns into your critic.
How many of you have
a strong critic,
catches you doing
things right and wrong?
And here's what
happens with this.
What started out to
be a P for Protector
now becomes your personality,
and it's caught up
with your identity,
and it's all based
on a story told by
a wounded child.
And we call this adulthood.
[AUDIENCE LAUGHING]
Now here's the cool part.
I love this part.
This is going to relate
to your decisions
about your life
and your business,
so just give me a minute.
I'll pull it all together.
At midlife-- which
is not a number,
but it's a mindset--
at midlife, we
start to ask questions
like, who am I?
Why am I here?
How do I want my life to be?
What if my story
isn't the whole story?
And at midlife,
when we're ready,
when we're mature enough
inside of our ourselves
to do work like this,
we're high enough up
on the Maslow's
hierarchy-- we've got food,
we've got shelter, we
can afford to be asking
provocative, self-reflective,
deep questions-- at midlife,
we start the journey back.
We go back through and go, oh,
this can't be all that it is.
This is part of who I am.
Oh, this story is
part of who I am.
I'm going to go back
through as a mature adult,
pick up what's called the
disowned or lost parts
of ourselves, and, for many
of us, it's our dreamer.
For many of us, it's our
creativity, our imagination,
our risk-taking, our
courageous get out of way,
I'm going for it.
We lost some of that
when we got wounded,
because we're afraid
of getting hurt.
We're afraid of failing.
How many of you are
with me on this?
Can I see?
You guys are terrific.
So what we want to do is we
want to make the journey back,
integrate the story
into all of who we are,
start to question
who am I really,
go back and reclaim the wounded
and lost parts of ourselves
to get back to essence.
And then life changes.
And I do believe it's a journey.
I don't think it's
a linear process.
like, oh, I've arrived.
Woo hoo.
I practice something I call
everyday enlightenment,
everyday enlightenment.
Spend more time in the light
connected to your dreams,
your hopes your
aspirations, less time
in the dark being
hijacked by your doubter
and your limiting
beliefs, and practice
living a virtuous life.
And the highest
virtue is integrity.
It kind of circles all back.
So what does this all have
to do with being an expert?
Life orchestrated
the entire thing.
What if the grand
master essence, whatever
that is for you, created
the wound for you
to become who you've become,
the expert that you are?
To live on purpose
requires three things.
One is that you have a
spiritual practice so you
can hear the deeper
wisdom beneath the ego.
Number two is you know what's
unique and special about you,
formed by your wound,
by your stories.
And number three, you find
a way to be of service.
And that's what we're here
to do as experts, really.
So many of you are
smiling at me right now.
How many of you are
having a deep appreciation
for your wound and
your story right now?
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> LISA: You really have
helped so many people.
You have the gift of--
you're an orator, aren't you?
>> WIEDER: Oh.
>> LISA: You do.
It just comes out.
>> WIEDER: I like to talk.
>> LISA: You do.
You do.
So you launched a campaign,
a Million Dreams Campaign.
Tell me about that.
>> WIEDER: Yeah.
It's one of those
audacious dreams.
My favorite Marcia quote is--
>> LISA: You're talking about
yourself in the third person.
>> WIEDER: That was
really terrible.
There's the dream
you have for life,
and then there's the
dream life has for you.
>> LISA: OK.
>> WIEDER: And when
they come together,
it's an extraordinary thing.
And that's how it feels to
me about this Million Dreams.
And on one hand, it's just a
number, and it's goal-oriented,
and I'm not really so much
about that with dreaming.
But the idea is that
when enough people are
thinking about their dreams
and acting upon their dreams,
we really can create a shift.
And that's really it.
This dream movement is
about getting people
away from just thinking
about their dreams
and talking about it.
So we created the
milliondreamscampaign.com
website.
People can also get to it
through Dream University,
where people-- It's
absolutely free.
People can watch
inspirational videos.
They can post a dream
and an action step.
And there's something
that happens
when we put our dream out there.
It's like when we
keep it a secret,
even we can forget what it is.
But when we put it
out to the world,
whether it's to share
it with our coach
or actually put it out
there where it's registered
on a site, we're much more
likely to do something
about it.
So we designed a place
where people could do that.
>> LISA: I love that.
All right.
So if you're someone
who is just hearing
this information for
the first time, who
came across this on Gaiam TV
and are sitting in your living
room in your pajamas and
you're hoping nobody sees you,
and you come across
a video like this,
it sparks something
inside of you.
And it doesn't matter
where you are in your life,
what situation you're in.
That's why I think
these are valuable.
You really touch
people with this.
>> WIEDER: And I want to just
say that sometimes people say,
well, I don't have a dream.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: We can
reframe that to, OK,
your dream is to
have a new dream.
>> LISA: Oh, that's good.
>> WIEDER: And so instead of
there's a problem to solve, OK.
Go on a passion quest.
Discover what you love, who
you are, what matters to you.
Make up a dream, even if
you start with a small one.
In our world at
Dream University,
no dream is too big, and
no dream is too small.
The question is, what's
important to you,
and what are you
willing to do about it?
>> LISA: I wonder if this could
also help students going into--
>> WIEDER: Absolutely.
>> LISA: --college.
>> WIEDER: I taught for a while
at Stanford Graduate School
for Business, and
our brightest minds,
they were terrified of
picking the wrong dream.
>> LISA: Ah.
>> WIEDER: Oh, my family
invested all this money,
and I've spent all this time.
What if I picked
the wrong thing?
And I said, well, what if you
use passion as your barometer
to do what you love
now and let that be
what guides you
through your life?
They're not being
taught that in school.
So we need to teach kids--
>> LISA: You've
got a good point.
>> WIEDER: --to dream, not
just how to solve problems.
>> LISA: Right.
>> WIEDER: That's
one of my dreams,
to bring dreaming into
the educational system.
>> LISA: All right.
Let's take a look at the
Million Dreams Campaign video.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>>Marcia Wieder says
expressing your passion is
your best chance for happiness.
She's the author of "Doing
Less and Having More."
>> LISA: My guest Marcia
Wieder today is joining us,
and she travels the world as
an ambassador for making dreams
come real.
>>Please welcome dream
coach Marcia Wieder.
>>Please join me
in a warm welcome
for the woman who is changing
the way we think and speak
about our dreams.
>>It's not enough to be
thinking about your dreams.
It's not enough to be
talking about your dreams.
You need to be doing
something about it.
And if you're over
here in reality
with your dream over
there, with one step
you're in action on your dreams.
With one step, you have new
perspective and new resources
that weren't available when you
were over here thinking, hmm,
maybe someday when the
kids are gone or I retire
or I have extra time or money.
That's not going to happen.
The world doesn't work that way.
But with one step,
you demonstrate
to the world around
you and to yourself
that you're not just
talking about your dream.
You're serious about
making it come true.
It's been medically proven that
people with passion and dreams
actually live longer,
healthier lives,
up to 7 to 10 years longer.
As a matter of fact, a dear
friend of mine, Dr. Oz,
told me that there's a
medical term for this.
It's actually called
apoptosis, just like it sounds.
Apoptosis is when
your brain believes
you've outgrown your usefulness,
which can happen at any age.
So we might want to be
asking ourselves, well,
what's the cure?
What's the antidote
for this syndrome?
Passion and dreams.
Can you believe in something
because it matters to you
and then prove that
you really do believe
in it by putting a stake in the
ground, setting an intention,
putting yourself in a right
relationship by taking action
on that dream?
Because then and only
then does it happen.
This is all about you
being willing to take
your next step and
then your next one.
And when you take
your next step,
people relate to
you differently.
They see you're not just
talking about your dream.
You're doing something about it.
[END VIDEO PLAYBACK]
>> LISA: OK.
So what are some of your dreams?
You've seen everybody else's.
>> WIEDER: Ah.
>> LISA: What are some of yours?
What are some of
Marcia's dreams?
>> WIEDER: Well,
there's the big ones,
and there's the little ones.
I mentioned I'm working
on a new book, finally.
I'm in development on
a television show--
>> LISA: You are?
>> WIEDER: --to inspire people
all over the world to go
for their dreams.
>> LISA: Good.
>> WIEDER: It's interesting.
Hollywood, you get to learn
how to deal with disappointment
where yes doesn't
necessarily mean yes.
So I'm getting stretched
in many, many new ways.
>> LISA: OK.
>> WIEDER: At a personal level,
I want to meet my soulmate.
Like I said, I'm going
public with that.
My dream right now really is
to live every day of my life
fully.
So there's those kind
of esoteric dreams.
But that's really changed my
business and my business model.
So I'm having a lot more free
time and a lot more available.
My dream is to be healthy,
wealthy, and wise.
My dream is to be
completely in service
and help other people
achieve their dreams,
to continue to support the
good work of the Make-A-Wish
Foundation.
I think that I
probably covered--
so at a personal level,
to fall in love--
>> LISA: Woah, woah, here.
>> WIEDER: --professional,
write a book, a television show.
>> LISA: Yeah, you've
got it covered.
But that's a great
point, though.
For a Type A personality,
like yourself,
who is very
motivated and driven,
do you have to build in the
time to slow yourself down?
>> WIEDER: Not anymore.
It's gotten easier.
At different phases in life,
we have different energy
and different dreams.
In our 30s and 40s,
we're initiating, right?
In our 40s and 50s,
we're transitioning.
Into our 50s and 60s,
we might be completing.
We might be--
>> LISA: Enjoying.
>> WIEDER: We might be enjoying.
We might be grieving
a loss because we're
no longer that
personality or identity.
So I think, for me, one of the
things that's keeping me happy
is really being not so
much age-appropriate but
mindset-appropriate.
So when I have a lot of energy,
I'm initiating something new.
I noticed for the
last three years
I was talking about
writing a new book.
I've written 14 of
them, but I haven't
written a new one in
a long, long time.
>> LISA: What's
that going to be on?
>> WIEDER: It's really about
how vision can transform
your business,
life, and the world.
And there's a new message that
has been moving through me.
But the industry has changed.
You asked long ago when
we started the interview
how things changing in the
world are impacting us changing.
And I think it's
important that we
adjust but we don't give
away all of our power
to a story or a conversation.
So I've been waiting
for the right message.
I don't think you should force
yourself to write a book.
yourself to be a speaker.
If you are-- if you
have a message--
In order to be a messenger,
it helps to have a message.
In order to be a
speaker, you want
to have something to talk about.
Same thing with writing.
So for me, I guess, as I'm
aging, gracefully hopefully,
I feel happier, I feel
lighter, I feel brighter,
and I think it's because
I've taken the time
to go on different
passion quests,
to ask important questions, and
to adjust my life accordingly.
I pulled the plug
this year on one
of our biggest, most
successful profitable programs
because I was tired of doing it.
My colleagues think
I'm out of my mind.
>> LISA: Yeah.
But you said something
very important, though.
You said grieving
the loss of a self
that you used to be
and to honor that self
and say, OK, that self
was appropriate for maybe
a 30-year-old.
But now that I'm in
a 50-year-old body,
I need to say--
>> WIEDER: With different needs.
>> LISA: Yeah.
And that's a very
important conversation,
rather than trying to
go after looking younger
and being inappropriate
that way to accept it.
>> LISA: When I
first moved to LA,
a dear friend of mine took me
to dinner and we were talking
about it.
I said, one of my
dreams is to turn
the Boulevard of Broken Dreams
into the Land of a Million
Dreams.
And he took my hand, and
he said to me, Marcia,
you're not like
anybody else I know.
And my eyes teared up, and
I said, you know, I was just
thinking that I wasn't
going to make it
in Hollywood because I'm
not 6 foot 25 and blond.
>> LISA: 6 foot 25.
>> WIEDER: I'm 4'11".
I'm in my 50s.
>> LISA: But you
stand tall, lady.
>> WIEDER: I stand tall.
>> LISA: You do.
>> WIEDER: Big presence.
>> LISA: Well, but you are--
you're the model for people
to learn from, for
many people learn from.
And I really appreciate your
energy and your enthusiasm
and what you talk about.
It's so inspirational.
>> WIEDER: You and
I are truth-tellers.
We're really no BS kind of gals.
>> LISA: I'm looking in
your eyes the entire time,
and I can see deep
into your soul,
and it's been a
beautiful journey,
as it always is when
I speak with you.
I feel like you're
just a soul sister.
>> WIEDER: It's funny that we
have to get together this way.
>> LISA: I know.
>> WIEDER: We can't have lunch.
>> LISA: We try.
>> WIEDER: We will.
That's our new dream.
>> LISA: We tried, but I
had to take care of family--
>> WIEDER: Yes.
>> LISA: --who were sick.
So that's also important.
I had to know when to say no.
>> WIEDER: Look, I'm
happy to see you anyway.
And just for the record,
we're both leaving next week.
We're members of the
Transformational Leadership
Council.
I'm going to be on the beach
in the Caribbean with you.
We have nothing
to complain about.
>> LISA: Well, this is the
lady who's living your dream.
Thank you again, Marcia.
And if you want to watch
my replay of my interview
with Marcia Wieder or
share it with your friends,
go to gaiamtv.com.
There's a lot more
thought-provoking interviews
there, inspirational films.
There's so much more, so sign up
for a free trial at gaiamtv.com
today.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.